===========
ARISTOXENUS
===========

When
    Last update: Version 0.1: 14/09/2023

Who
    I am a hobby programmer who started learning Python in February of 2023. The ostensible purpose of this program is to manipulate 
    musical material, but the real purpose is to help me learn to be a more effective programmer. 

What
    Aristoxenus is a musical manipulation tool. This doc is mostly just a placeholder for now while I keep working on the program. 
    Here are a few things it can do so far:

        best_heptatonic_scale
            Choose the best name for a given interval structure and tonic note name.
        force_heptatonic_scale
            Force a given heptatonic interval structure to follow ABCDEFG nomenclature regardless of any accidentals.
        parse_chord_symbol
            Attempt to generate an interval map from the sub-symbols in a given chord symbol (e.g. Em7b5 >> 0b10001001001)
        encode_frequency / decode_frequency
            Used to translate scientific notes (e.g. A4) of any accidental type to frequencies (e.g. 440 hz) and vice versa.

In the near future, it will also be able to:

- provide chord and scale names for given interval structures (including modes/inversions)
- parse complex polychord symbols into interval structures
- parse slash chord symbols into interval structures

A few goals of the program in the less near future:

- developing a system of rhythmic notation that's easily readable for humans and python parse_chord_symbol
- learning how to use frequency data to generate MIDI files from given pitch data
- simulate the specific range of real instruments
- predict plausible fingerings for piano and guitar chords
- create tablature for tin whistle, recorder, and other aerophones

As I keep learning more about programming, long term aspirations might be:

- creating a decision-making hierarchy to help generate legitimate-sounding melodic material
- creating a procedural permutator to generate infinite etudes based on simple structures and chord progressions
- render musical data in sheet music format


Pitch Structures
----------------
Pitch structures are stored as integers, allowing us to manipulate
musical material using bitwise operations. Pretty straightforward, 
but it is convenient to be able to express scales as compounds of 
simpler intervals made of integers.

Nomenclature
------------
Musical nomenclature is automatically generated by the program. 

When I wrote the first version of this program, I had maybe 
1 or 2 months with Python. I spent time typing out charts of sharps and flats so I could convert notes to their enharmonic 
equivalents. It was monotonous, but it helped me understand the value of automating tasks with Python. Now, almost all of 
the nomenclature is generated procedurally; simple symbols combine to form complex symbols, which can then be converted 
into enharmonic and scientific equivalents, and then bound into ranges with calculated frequencies.

Originally the nomenclature module was a Nomenclature class. The 'state' consisted of the generated nomenclatural material, 
and all the methods either generated material, or provided access to it. I asked myself why it was necessary for the class 
to exist at all, and took it as an opportunity to try a more functional approach. Python often seems to be written in 
class-based schemata almost by default, but I am realizing more and more that this sometimes introduces unnecessary complexity. 

I am curious to see what mistakes I will recognize in this module after a couple more months of study.

Octave
------
The octave is the smallest theoretical pitch structure. 

Double Octave
-------------
The double octave is the largest theoretical pitch structure. 

Instruments
-----------
The real range of an instrument can be represented by a multi-octave pitch structure.



